Thin Layer Chromatography (TLC) analysis of anthocyanins
To get an indication of the effect of various mutations on flower color we will analyze the
accumulated pigments by Thin Layer Chromatography (TLC). Therefore anthocyanins are
extracted from the flowers and boiled in 2M HCl to hydrolyze the sugars.
The resulting anthocyanins are separated by TLC on cellulose plates.
The most common solvent mixture is Forestal, which gives the nicest spots. However to get a
different pattern to separate peonidin/malvidin and petunidin/cyanidin running solvent
Isopropanol-HCl can be used. Disadvantage is that it gives more’flame-like’ spots.
For separation of colourless intermeditaties: see next page
Materials:
2M HCl; dilute HCl 36%(12M):water = 1:5
Isoamylalcohol
TLC plate cellulose pre-coated: Merck 1.05730
Capillaries; 2.2ml tubes; Container for running TLC plate
Running solvent Forestal = Acetic acid: HCl 36%: Water = 30 : 3: 10 (Forestal)
Optional: Running solvent Isopropanol-HCl = Water:Propanol-2:HCl(36%)= 5:6:1
Controls (if possible). I.e. flowers with known anthocyanins
Procedure:
1.Pick 1 corolla from an open flower and push it on the bottom of a marked 2.2 ml Eppendorf tube and
then add 1 ml of 2 M HCl, take care that the material is covered with liquid.
2.Put the tube, with closed cap, in boiling water for 20 minutes to hydrolyze the flavonoid-sugar
binding (boil in fume hood, beware of HCl fumes).
3.Add 150 µl isoamylalcohol and vortex 10 sec. The flavonoids will be concentrated in the
isoamylalcohol (top layer).
4.Centrifuge for 5 minutes.
5. Marking the TLC plate is only possible with a soft pencil.
6.Take an aliquot of the isoamylalcohol extract (top layer) in a glass capillary and spot samples on a
cellulose TLC plate, approximately 2 cm from the bottom.
7.Apply the samples by tapping the capillary on the cellulose 3-4 times very short. Try to keep the spot
small. Allow the solvent to evaporate. Repeat this once to spot enough material.
8.Put the TLC plate for 2-3 hours in a TLC container with the following solvent:
9.After 2-3 hrs the chromatogram the anthocyanins have separated enough to be identified. Determine
the main anthocyanin pigment for each line and correlate this to the flower color.
Specific anthocyanins can then be identified on basis of their relative mobility and color as indicated in
the diagram below (Forestal)
Diagram showing the separation of anthocyanin aglycones by TLC in Forestal solvent
For separation of colourless intermeditaties use TLC plates on Silicagel 60 F254(Merck 1.05729)
After boiling in 2M HCl extract with 150µl ethylacetate
Running solvent = CHCl3:methanol:HCOOH=90:9:1
